# Dalton-Virtual-Assistant-v2
A version 2 of the initial Virtual Assistant I had created last year. This version includes improved speech recognition, multiple new functionalities, along with an AI neural network which runs through the user input and gets back with the most relevant result. (Not very advanced, future plans include integrating this into GPT architecture (someone pls help))

## Usage
By default, when executed, Dalton is in sleep mode. In order to wake Dalton up, speak out the hot word `activate`.  
Once it is activated, `Listening...` is printed out and only then, you should speak(otherwise your message can get cut).  
After the message is spoken, Dalton recognizes the text  (`Recognizing...`)  via Google's speech recognition API, and a relevant response is generated by the neural network model.
This reply is then spoken out using `pyttsx3` module (couldn't find any other offline module) which converts the text into speech.  
Something to keep in mind is that `pyttsx3` sounds robotic, which in this case, is what I want, so be mindful of that while working with the module.  
After using Dalton, to put him back to sleep, you can tell it to `sleep` after which it will go back into its sleep mode.

## Functionalities
As of this version, the following are the funcionalities of Dalton:  
* __WakeUp Procedure__: When started, Dalton greets you depending on the time of the day. If Dalton is being started up for the first time in the day, and it is morning, Dalton reads out latest news related to Science and Technology from around the world.
* __Send Email__: Send an email to anyone by just speaking out the content and the receiver. In case the receiver's email ID was incorrectly recognized, you can type out the ID manually.
* __Get News Updates__: Get news headlines related to Science and Technology (customizable) from around the world using the [gnewsclient](https://pypi.org/project/gnewsclient/).
* __Analyze your system__: Ask Dalton to analyse your device for you - Receive data regarding CPU usage, RAM, Disk usage, battery left, etc.
* __System Details__: Ask Dalton to get you the details of the PC (PC info) and Dalton will come up with a Comprehensive System Details Report regarding the CPU configurations, RAM, IP Address, etc.
* __Time__: Just ask the time, and Dalton will tell you
* __Open Programs and Websites__: Ask Dalton to open up/close websites and/or programs. Currently supported websites and programs include:
  * Google Chrome
  * YouTube
  * Notepad
  * Command Line
  * WhatsApp (if available)
* __Search the Web__: Ask Dalton anything, and he will open up the most relevant website for you.
* __Search Wikipedia__: Ask Dalton to specifically search something in Wikipedia (otherwise Dalton will search on Google) and he will return with relevant information (if the data is there in Wikipedia)
* __Play Music__: Ask Dalton to play some music, and dance to the tunes
* __Send WhatsApp Message__: Send a message to predefined contacts via WhatsApp, all without even having to pick up your phone
* __Tell a joke__: Feeling low? Dalton has an array of programmer-related [jokes and one-liners](https://pypi.org/project/pyjokes/) to brighten up your mood
* __Fun Fact__: Want to get smarter? Dalton can help you. Get a random [fact](https://pypi.org/project/randfacts/) and enrich your GK.
